Cribbage
A 2 player cribbage game. Human vs. Computer


Here are some basic instructions on how to play cribbage: Cribbage uses a standard 52-card deck of cards. The jokers are removed; the suits are equal in status. The players cut for first deal, with the player cutting the lowest card (the ace counts as one, and is the lowest card) dealing first. If the cutters tie, the cards are re-shuffled and re-cut. The dealer shuffles, offers the deck to the other player to cut, and deals cards singly to each player. Cards must be dealt so that each player ends up with four cards after the crib is formed, and the crib should also have four cards. For two players, each is dealt six cards. The person whose crib it is not cuts the deck and the dealer chooses the top card and flips it onto the deck face up. If this card is a Jack, the dealer scores two points. This card is included in scoring all hands and cribs. You play by "pegging".

Pegging: Each player alternates putting down a card. You sum up the cards. All cards have their respective values. Ace is 1, all face cards are valued at 10. You play until 31. You score 2 points any time you sum 15 or 31 and 1 point every time you end the round and your opponent cannot play. If your opponent cannot play and you still can, you must keep going until you cannot play (you cannot pass the sum of 31). Same goes for any player. At the end of the round, you sum up your scores. The player whose crib it is sums up their score second, and then sums up the crib. The crib switches to the other player. While you are pegging, besides getting points for finishing a round, 15, and 31, you can get points by using cribbage scoring rules.

Cribbage scoring rules during pegging: -fifteen-twos two points for a cumulative total of exactly fifteen ("fifteen two") runs three points for completing a run of three cards, regardless of the order in which they are laid (a 6, then a 4, then a 5 is a run of three even though they were not laid in order) four points for completing a run of four five points for completing a run of five six points for completing a run of six seven points for completing the run of seven; e.g. playing 2, 4, 6, A, 3, 5 and 7 -pairs two points for laying a card of the same rank as the previous card, thus completing a pair six points for laying a third card of the same rank (a "pair royal" or "trips") twelve points for laying a fourth card of the same rank (a "double pair royal" or "quad")

Cribbage scoring rules at the end of the round: -fifteen-twos two points for each separate combination of two or more cards totaling exactly fifteen -runs three points for a run of three consecutive cards (regardless of suit) four points for completing a run of four five points for completing a run of five -pairs two points for a pair of cards of a kind six points for three cards of a kind (known as a "pair royal", comprising three distinct pairs) twelve points for four cards of a kind (a "double pair royal", comprising six distinct pairs) -flush four points for a flush, where all four cards in the hand are of the same suit, with an additional point if the starter card is also of that suit. one point for holding the Jack of the same suit as the starter card ("one for his nob"[5] or "... his nobs"[6])

Here is how you play our game: You enter your name. You will see a screen with the cards being dealt. You peg until the round is over and you see a score board for the round. The next round starts after the score screen. You play until the game is over (any player reaches 120 points).